Now that you know
one way to calculate the car's
new position, let's look at
another commonly used method
using odometry, or
motion sensor data.
For mobile robots, odometry
calmly comes from wheel sensors
that measure how many times the
wheels of the vehicle or robot
have turned.
For instance, the
sensor on this wheel
would tell us it
has turned twice.
Given the circumference of the
wheel and this odometry data,
you can measure the
distance traveled,
as indicated by the red line.
More specifically, the
new position of the car
is the starting
position of the car
plus the x and y components
of the odometry, multiplied
by the circumference
of the wheel.
Awesome.
With this knowledge,
next I want you
to think about when
odometry measurements might
fail to report accurate
position estimates.